# iCEGenius (WIP)

**STILL A WORK IN PROGRESS, DONT USE UNTIL THIS MESSAGE IS GONE**

A low cost, low power, minimally sized FPGA development board based on the iCE40LP384 FPGA.

## Table of Contents
- [iCEGenius (WIP)](#icegenius-wip)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Project Goal](#project-goal)
  - [Setup](#setup)
  - [Directory Structure](#directory-structure)
  - [Support](#support)
  - [Wishlist](#wishlist)
  - [Author Information](#author-information)

## Project Goal

Hobbyist grade FPGAs are in relatively short supply and are typically complicated for new users to dive into. Even the cheapest ones still range in the 30-40 dollar territory, which can be prohibitively expensive for institutions or groups without a large budget. To fill this void, the iCEGenius has been developed as an educational tool for use in learning introductory to intermediate Verilog on a real hardware target.

{INSERT 3D RENDER PIC}

The iCEGenius has been designed with cost and ease of use in mind. The total bill of materials is only $13.00 USD, which is cheaper than any of the common development FPGAs on the market. The board is designed to fit comfortably into a standard breadboard with space for multiple connections on either pin. With 16 accessible GPIOs, the board is very expandable for anything from simple blinky LEDs to more complex designs.

{INSERT PIC OF BOARD ON BREADBOARD}

The toolchain is a Visual Studio Code extension which supports one click simulations using iverilog and gtkwave and full synthesis using yosys and nextpnr. The [oss-cad-suite](https://github.com/YosysHQ/oss-cad-suite-build) was used as the main backend as all the necessary programs were included by default. A custom program designed to flash the bitstream using the MCP2210 USB-SPI interface is used as the uploader. All of the complicated command line work is handled by the extension, allowing for a low barrier to entry to those who want to learn.

The PCB was developed in Kicad 7.0 and the extension supports Visual Studio Code 1.77.0 and greater.

**IMPORTANT: ONLY WINDOWS IS SUPPORTED AT THIS TIME**

## Setup

1. Grab the latest binary of oss-cad-suite from https://github.com/YosysHQ/oss-cad-suite-build and extract to `C:/oss-cad-suite`.
2. Install the latest binary of the iCEGenius Programmer from the [`Releases`](https://github.com/dirkt68/iCEGenius/releases/) Tab.
3. Install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) and install the iCEGenius (ADD HYPERLINK TO EXTENSION) extension.
4. Write some Verilog and upload to your board!

## Directory Structure

- board (where anything related to PCB lives)
  - bom (bill of materials for v2 and v1)
  - iCEGenius-backups (kicad automatic backups)
  - information (datasheets and a pinout guide for the FPGA)
  - jlcpcb (where the production files are autogenerated (gerbers, cpl, etc.))
  - pdf (easy reference to schematic and layout)
  - sims (electronic simulations)
  - kicad board files (open in kicad)
- extension (where the vscode extension lives)
  - standard Visual Studio Code layout for an extension
- programmer (where the program to program the board lives)
  - etc (user guides, etc.)
  - includes (*.h files)
  - libs (*.lib files)
  - src (main code)

## Support
- Any suggestions are welcome! I will not be super active all the time, but I'd like to maintain the project as much as I can.

## Wishlist
- add linux and mac support
- host a prebuilt board somewhere where people can buy (where?)

## Author Information
- Made by Dirk Thieme for use in ECE 2372 for the Capstone Project Lab at Texas Tech University. Advised by Derek A. Johnston.




































































